This directory contains the results of our application of FILET to population genomic data from D. simulans and D. sechellia.

Contents:

intro_regions_clustered_genes.bed: This BED file contains the coordinates of all clustered introgressed regions and any overlapping genes (see manuscript for a description of our simple clustering procedure: http://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/07/31/170670).

*.preds files for each major chromosome arm: The first three fields of these tab-delimited .preds files are the coordinates for each 10 kb window included in the analysis; the fourth field is the number of sites in the window that were included in the analysis (i.e. not filtered due to poor data quality/repetitive sequence); the fifth field is the state predicted by FILET (0=no introgression; 1=introgression from dsech to dsim; 2=introgression from dsim to dsech); the remaining fields are FILET's posterior probabilities for these respective states. These posterior probabilities may not be extremely well calibrated, but they are useful for ranking candidate regions.

For the .preds and .bed files the coordinates follow the bed convention of subtracting 1 from the starting position for some position, but using the correct end position. (i.e. the first 10 bp on chr2L is: chr2L    0    10). Note that the intro_regions_clustered_genes.bed file does not include any information about the direction of introgression, but you can pluck that information out from the .preds files.

Note: these analyses were performed on the March 2012 version of the D. simulans assembly constructed by Tina Hu and colleagues. The version on FlyBase has changed very slightly, necessitating the addition of the following file:

intro_regions_clustered_flybase2.02.bed: This BED file contains the coordinates of our clustered introgressed regions in the coordinate space FlyBase v. 2.02 release of the simulans assembly. This was done via BLAT and was fairly trivial, as a comparison of this file with intro_regions_clustered_genes.bed reveals that the coordinates for each cluster are just shifted slightly. Note that the .preds files have not been lifted over the same manner, and our still in the coordinate space of the March 2012 assembly.

dsimV2-genes-mod.tsv: This is the original gene annotation to go along with the March 2012 assembly, and was therefore used for all of our analyses. This file would be required to reproduce our results from our simulans/sechellia manuscript but should not be used for any analysis with newer assembly versions. The current assembly and annotation can be found on FlyBase.org.
